# Project 2 - Ames Housing Data and Kaggle Challenge

## Problem Statement

Buying a house can be exciting but also frustrating when it comes to finding the right price for the right house. When purchasing a home there are many factors to measure besides the price itself such as : How many cars can the garage fit? What is the basement square footage? How good is the quality of the kitchen? For this project I will be using the Ames housing data and applying the possible features of an initial open house to help home buyers predict the sale price of a house after just one viewing. Most home buyers don’t possess the technical knowledge of data science but not too worry I am here to help!


## Data Cleaning and EDA

I cleaned both train and test data sets by splitting them into seprate chunked data frames. I did this so 1) I can visually see the data more clearly in each column 2) I can assure that missings in each column are dealt with. 3) I can identify trends, outliers or other errors in each column and 4) it gave me time to explore the columns while I clean them. I made a few of the columns biinary hoping it will help with future modeling. As I went through my columns I wrote several down that could be of well fitting for my model so to learn more about these features I put graphed them to compare with SalesPrice. Sure enough most of the features I chose seemed to visually make sense. The data dictionary I used to reference was given through Kaggle at https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/dsi-910-ames-housing-challenge/data

## Processing and Modeling
After organizing, exploring and choosing the features in the data set it was time to create a model to show predicted house prices. My mission is to take the house features I was given, create a linear regression model to the actual sale prices of the houses and then apply that same model to an unseen test data set that has houses without a sale price. I decided to use the train_test_split method, followed by the preprocessing technique of OneHotEncoder to transform and prepare my chosen data. When preprocessing was complete, it was time to fit my data to a linear regression model to see how well my model would perform against unseen data.  One metric to gauge how well a model fits is the R2 score which is the percentage of variability in the dependent variable (y) that can be explained by the independent variable (x).  R2  scores range from 0, meaning the model failed, to 1 where the model is a perfect fit. The model I created has an R2  score of 85% which is a solid fit and will properly predict the sale price on the testing data.

## Conlusion and Recomendations
It seems my linear regression model fit well and new home buyers can have a good idea on what sale price to expect after visiting a house for the first time. Although my model was strong, was it the best? I can assume there are other house features and modeling methods that could raise the R2 score and reflect better predictions.
In conclusion I would need to continue to gather more data, preferably data that’s similar to the current housing market, try to add or remove house features, and create other linear regression models using different preprocessing techniques. 